So what should I define in the header file vs the cpp file, and what inside the class definition vs outside?

You might be tempted to put all of your member function definitions into the header file, inside the class. While this will compile, there are a couple of downsides to doing so. First, as mentioned above, this clutters up your class definition. Second, functions defined inside the class are implicitly inline. For larger functions that are called from many places, this can bloat your code. Third, if you change anything about the code in the header, then you’ll need to recompile every file that includes that header. This can have a ripple effect, where one minor change causes the entire program to need to recompile (which can be slow). If you change the code in a .cpp file, only that .cpp file needs to be recompiled!
Also we can use the compiled .cpp file in other programs instead of compiling it once again in the programs we use. This saves a lot of time. Libraries are built the same way, that is they have definition and pre-compiled implementation in seperate files, hence its enough if we just include the header file and use the pre-comiled .cpp files.

Foe example:- iostream is a header file with all the function declaration. The functions are defined in some other .cpp file which is pre-compiled and we need not compile that once again. Else we cannot imagine the time it would take to write a simple hello world program if our program kept compiling the ostream class from which cout object is derived and << is the overloaded operator (cin from istream class).

Therefore, we recommend the following:

For classes used in only one file that aren’t generally reusable, define them directly in the single .cpp file they’re used in.
For classes used in multiple files, or intended for general reuse, define them in a .h file that has the same name as the class.
Trivial member functions (trivial constructors or destructors, access functions, etc…) can be defined inside the class.
Non-trivial member functions should be defined in a .cpp file that has the same name as the class.
In future lessons, most of our classes will be defined in the .cpp file, with all the functions implemented directly in the class definition. This is just for convenience and to keep the examples short. In real projects, it is much more common for classes to be put in their own code and header files, and you should get used to doing so.
